# Access Control (ACL)

## Review, Research, and Discussion

### 1. When is Basic Authorization used vs. Bearer Authorization?

basic is string-based while the bearer is token-based, the bearer is more secure than basic since the tokens are encrypted.

### 2. What does the JSON Web Token package do?

JSON Web Token is used to send information that can be verified and trusted by means of a digital signature. It comprises a compact and URL-safe JSON object, which is cryptographically signed to verify its authenticity, and which can also be encrypted if the payload contains sensitive information.

### 3.What considerations should we make when creating and storing a SECRET?

Keep it protected by saving it in `.env` file.


## Vocabulary Terms

### 1. Encryption

Encryption is the process of encoding information to prevent unauthorized access.

### 2. Token

used in bearer authentication, a token is a cryptic string that is generated by the server in response to a login request.

### 3. bearer

is an HTTP authentication scheme that involves security tokens called bearer tokens.

### 4. Secret

it's paired with a token, a secret string stored on the server used to signin and encode the token.

### 5. JSON Web Token
consists of three parts separated by dots - header, payload, signature


## Preview

Which 3 things had you heard about previously and now have better clarity on?

* basic auth
* UML
* Postman

Which 3 things are you hoping to learn more about in the upcoming lecture/demo?

* Bearer Auth
* methods and statics 
* JWT

What are you most excited about trying to implement or see how it works?

* O Auth

## Preparation Materials

### 5 steps to RBAC


* RBAC is the idea of assigning system access to users based on their role in the organization

* RBAC implementation:
  1) Inventory your systems
  2) Analyze your workforce and create roles.
  3) Assign people to roles
  4) Never make one-off changes
   Audit.


### wiki - RBAC

* Three primary rules are defined for RBAC:
  1) Role assignment: A subject can exercise permission only if the subject has selected or been assigned a role.

  2) Role authorization: A subject's active role must be authorized for the subject. With rule 1 above, this rule ensures that users can take on only roles for which they are authorized.

  3) Permission authorization: A subject can exercise permission only if the permission is authorized for the subject's active role. With rules 1 and 2, this rule ensures that users can exercise only permissions for which they are authorized




